I worked at the Punjab Safe City Authority, a semi-government authority in Pakistan, I was placed under the web-development group in their I.T department.I had to work on building a basic employee’s management system using my prior knowledge and learn all the necessary material needed for the project. For front-end, I mainly used the bootstrap templates and changed them as per my need, since designing new pages would have taken all my internship days, some challenges were passing data from one module of the project to another, sending a retrieving the desired data from the database etc. However, some websites and YouTube guide videos helped greatly in learning and solving the problems. 

So I created a basic, a demo version but fully functional employee management system for the company. The instructor advised me to use my past knowledge that I learned and take my time to gather additional information I need to work with, to move things at a pace that I am comfortable at, and make sure I end up learning new things rather than just completing the project. The Employee Management System (EMS) is built using html, Css, Bootstrap Framework, Php, PhpMyAdmin Database and we have a localhost via Xampp program. I really want to thank w3school.com for the content they had on their website, It helped me a lot. This project has two modules, the admin and the user’s (Employee’s), There is one login page, Admin and employee have separate dashboards, only the admin can register a new employee to the system, see all the employee records, update an employee’s information or delete that employee, admin can assign tasks and total number of leaves to the employees, as well as approve or reject leave request by the employee. On the other hand, the employee can check tasks assigned by the admin, message the admin back on the progress or queries relating to the project, request a leave and see the results, check their profiles and a few more stuff. The project was really interesting, especially when things started to make sense, but it took me some time to complete it, however, I can say I honestly learned a lot from this internship 100%. The entire code is written in an unregistered version of Sublime text, which is a very basic coding/editing software, so It was not difficult at all to work with, rather quite easy I would say.
